Add release notes for Chef Infra Client 16.5 (#10407)
chef/chef: RELEASE_NOTES.md

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# What's New in 16.5

## Performance Improvements

We continue to reduce the size of the Chef Infra Client install and optimize the performance of the client. With Chef Infra Client 16.5 we've greatly reduced the startup time of the `chef-client` process. Startup times on macOS, Linux, and Windows hosts are now approximately 2x faster than the 16.4 release.

## CLI Improvements

- The client license acceptance logic has been improved to provide helpful error messages when an incorrect value is passed and to accept license values in any text case.

> - A new `chef-client` process exit code of 43 has been added to signal that an invalid configuration was specified. Thanks [@NaomiReeves](https://github.com/NaomiReeves)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new `chef-client` process exit code of 43 has been added to signal that an invalid configuration was specified. Thanks [@NaomiReeves](https://github.com/NaomiReeves)!
```

> - The `knife ssh` command no longer hangs when connecting to Windows nodes over SSH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `knife ssh` command no longer hangs when connecting to Windows nodes over SSH.
```

  OTEwMDkyMzQxNTJaFw0yMTEwMDgyMzQxNTJaMGIxCzAJBgNVBAYTAlVTMRMwEQYD
  VQQIDApDYWxpZm9ybmlhMRYwFAYDVQQHDA1TYW4gRnJhbmNpc2NvMQ8wDQYDVQQK
  DAZCYWRTU0wxFTATBgNVBAMMDCouYmFkc3NsLmNvbTCCASIwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEB
  BQADggEPADCCAQoCggEBAMIE7PiM7gTCs9hQ1XBYzJMY61yoaEmwIrX5lZ6xKyx2
  PmzAS2BMTOqytMAPgLaw+XLJhgL5XEFdEyt/ccRLvOmULlA3pmccYYz2QULFRtMW
  hyefdOsKnRFSJiFzbIRMeVXk0WvoBj1IFVKtsyjbqv9u/2CVSndrOfEk0TG23U3A
  xPxTuW1CrbV8/q71FdIzSOciccfCFHpsKOo3St/qbLVytH5aohbcabFXRNsKEqve
  ww9HdFxBIuGa+RuT5q0iBikusbpJHAwnnqP7i/dAcgCskgjZjFeEU4EFy+b+a1SY
  QCeFxxC7c3DvaRhBB0VVfPlkPz0sw6l865MaTIbRyoUCAwEAAaMyMDAwCQYDVR0T
  BAIwADAjBgNVHREEHDAaggwqLmJhZHNzbC5jb22CCmJhZHNzbC5jb20wDQYJKoZI
  hvcNAQELBQADggEBAGlwCdbPxflZfYOaukZGCaxYK6gpincX4Lla4Ui2WdeQxE95
  w7fChXvP3YkE3UYUE7mupZ0eg4ZILr/A0e7JQDsgIu/SRTUE0domCKgPZ8v99k3A
  vka4LpLK51jHJJK7EFgo3ca2nldd97GM0MU41xHFk8qaK1tWJkfrrfcGwDJ4GQPI
  iLlm6i0yHq1Qg1RypAXJy5dTlRXlCLd8ufWhhiwW0W75Va5AEnJuqpQrKwl3KQVe
  wGj67WWRgLfSr+4QG1mNvCZb2CkjZWmxkGPuoP40/y7Yu5OFqxP5tAjj4YixCYTW
  EVA0pmzIzgBg+JIe3PdRy27T0asgQW/F4TY61Yk=
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
  CERT
end
```

## Resource Updates

### chef_client_cron

> The `chef_client_cron` has been updated with a new `nice` property that allows you to set the nice level for the `chef-client` process. Keep in mind that the nice level changes only apply to the `chef-client` process and not any subprocesses like `ohai` or system utility calls. If you need to ensure that the `chef-client` process does not negatively impact system performance we highly recommend instead using the `cpu_quota` property in the `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource, which applies to all child processes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_cron` resource has been updated with a new `nice` property that allows you to set the nice level for the `chef-client` process. Keep in mind that the nice level changes only apply to the `chef-client` process and not any subprocesses like `ohai` or system utility calls. If you need to ensure that the `chef-client` process does not negatively impact system performance we highly recommend instead using the `cpu_quota` property in the `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource, which applies to all child processes.
```

### chef_client_systemd_timer

> The `chef_client_systemd_timer` has been updated with a new `cpu_quota` property that allows you to control the systemd `CPUQuota` value for the chef-client process. This allows you to ensure chef-client execution doesn't adversely impact performance on your systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource  has been updated with a new `cpu_quota` property that allows you to control the systemd `CPUQuota` value for the chef-client process. This allows you to ensure chef-client execution doesn't adversely impact performance on your systems.
```

### osx_profile

> The `osx_profile` resource will now allow you to remove profiles from macOS 11 (Big Sur) systems. Keep in mind that due to security changes in macOS 11 it no longer possible to locally install profiles, but this will allow you to cleanup existing profiles left over after an upgrade from an earlier macOS release. Thanks for reporting this issue [@chilcote](https://github.com/chilcote)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `osx_profile` resource will now allow you to remove profiles from macOS 11 (Big Sur) systems. Due to security changes in macOS 11, it is no longer possible to locally install profiles, but this will allow you to cleanup existing profiles left over after an upgrade from an earlier macOS release. Thanks for reporting this issue [@chilcote](https://github.com/chilcote)
```

### launchd

The `launchd` resource has been updated to better validate inputs to the `nice` property so we can make sure these are acceptable nice values.

### mount

The `mount` resource on Linux has new improved idempotency in some scenarios by switching to `findmnt` to determine the current state of the system. Thanks for reporting this issue [@pollosp](https://github.com/pollosp)

### rhsm_register

The `rhsm_register` resource has been updated to reduce the load on the RedHat Satellite server when checking if a system is already registered. Thanks for reporting this issue [@donwlewis](https://github.com/donwlewis)

### windows_ad_join

The `windows_ad_join` resource has been updated with a new `reboot_delay` property, which allows you to control the delay time before restarting systems.

## Ohai Improvements

- Ohai now uses the same underlying code for shelling out to external commands as Chef Infra Client. This may resolve issues determining state on some non-English systems.

> - The `Package` plugin has been updated to gather package installation information on macOS hosts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `packages` plugin has been updated to gather package installation information on macOS hosts.
```

Author: Sadly we're both wrong. It's Packages

# What's New in 16.5

## Performance Improvements

We continue to reduce the size of the Chef Infra Client install and optimize the performance of the client. With Chef Infra Client 16.5 we've greatly reduced the startup time of the `chef-client` process. Startup times on macOS, Linux, and Windows hosts are now approximately 2x faster than the 16.4 release.

## CLI Improvements

- The client license acceptance logic has been improved to provide helpful error messages when an incorrect value is passed and to accept license values in any text case.
- A new `chef-client` process exit code of 43 has been added to signal that an invalid configuration was specified. Thanks [@NaomiReeves](https://github.com/NaomiReeves)!
- The `knife ssh` command no longer hangs when connecting to Windows nodes over SSH
- The `knife config` commands have been renamed to make them shorter and table output has been improved:
  - knife config get-profile -> knife config use
  - knife config use-profile [NAME] -> knife config use [NAME]
  - knife config list-profiles -> knife config list
  - knife config get -> knife config show

## New Resources

### chef_client_launchd

> The `chef_client_launchd` resource allows you to configure Chef Infra Client to run as a global launchd daemon on macOS hosts. This resource mirrors the configuration of other `chef_client_*` resources and allows for simple out of the box configuration of the daemon, while also providing advanced tunables. If you've used the `chef-client` cookbook in the past, you'll notice a number of improvements in the new resource including configuration update handling, splay times support, process nice level support, and an out of the box configuration of low IO priority execution. In order to handle restarting the Chef Infra Client launchd daemon when configuration changes occur the resource also installs a new `com.chef.restarter` daemon. This daemon watches for daemon configuration changes and gracefully handles the restart to ensure the client process continues to run.

Reviewer: For the phrase `process nice level support,` would this make more sense "`nice` process level support"  or just "`nice` level support"?

Author: Updated to remove process

> The `chef_client_launchd` resource allows you to configure Chef Infra Client to run as a global launchd daemon on macOS hosts. This resource mirrors the configuration of other `chef_client_*` resources and allows for simple out of the box configuration of the daemon, while also providing advanced tunables. If you've used the `chef-client` cookbook in the past, you'll notice a number of improvements in the new resource including configuration update handling, splay times support, process nice level support, and an out of the box configuration of low IO priority execution. In order to handle restarting the Chef Infra Client launchd daemon when configuration changes occur the resource also installs a new `com.chef.restarter` daemon. This daemon watches for daemon configuration changes and gracefully handles the restart to ensure the client process continues to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_launchd` resource allows you to configure Chef Infra Client to run as a global launchd daemon on macOS hosts. This resource mirrors the configuration of other `chef_client_*` resources and allows for simple out-of-the-box configuration of the daemon, while also providing advanced tunables. If you've used the `chef-client` cookbook in the past, you'll notice a number of improvements in the new resource including configuration update handling, splay times support, process nice level support, and an out-of-the-box configuration of low IO priority execution. In order to handle restarting the Chef Infra Client launchd daemon when configuration changes occur the resource also installs a new `com.chef.restarter` daemon. This daemon watches for daemon configuration changes and gracefully handles the restart to ensure the client process continues to run.
```

```ruby
chef_client_launchd 'Setup the Chef Infra Client to run every 30 minutes' do
  interval 30
  action :enable
end
```

### chef_client_trusted_certificate

> The `chef_client_trusted_certificate` resource allows you to add a certificate to Chef Infra Client's trusted certificate directory. The resource handles platform specific locations and creates the trusted certificates directory if it doesn't already exist. Once a certificate is added, it will be used by the client itself to communicate with the Chef Infra Server and by resources such as `remote_file`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_trusted_certificate` resource allows you to add a certificate to Chef Infra Client's trusted certificate directory. The resource handles platform-specific locations and creates the trusted certificates directory if it doesn't already exist. Once a certificate is added, it will be used by the client itself to communicate with the Chef Infra Server and by resources such as `remote_file`.
```

  OTEwMDkyMzQxNTJaFw0yMTEwMDgyMzQxNTJaMGIxCzAJBgNVBAYTAlVTMRMwEQYD
  VQQIDApDYWxpZm9ybmlhMRYwFAYDVQQHDA1TYW4gRnJhbmNpc2NvMQ8wDQYDVQQK
  DAZCYWRTU0wxFTATBgNVBAMMDCouYmFkc3NsLmNvbTCCASIwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQEB
  BQADggEPADCCAQoCggEBAMIE7PiM7gTCs9hQ1XBYzJMY61yoaEmwIrX5lZ6xKyx2
  PmzAS2BMTOqytMAPgLaw+XLJhgL5XEFdEyt/ccRLvOmULlA3pmccYYz2QULFRtMW
  hyefdOsKnRFSJiFzbIRMeVXk0WvoBj1IFVKtsyjbqv9u/2CVSndrOfEk0TG23U3A
  xPxTuW1CrbV8/q71FdIzSOciccfCFHpsKOo3St/qbLVytH5aohbcabFXRNsKEqve
  ww9HdFxBIuGa+RuT5q0iBikusbpJHAwnnqP7i/dAcgCskgjZjFeEU4EFy+b+a1SY
  QCeFxxC7c3DvaRhBB0VVfPlkPz0sw6l865MaTIbRyoUCAwEAAaMyMDAwCQYDVR0T
  BAIwADAjBgNVHREEHDAaggwqLmJhZHNzbC5jb22CCmJhZHNzbC5jb20wDQYJKoZI
  hvcNAQELBQADggEBAGlwCdbPxflZfYOaukZGCaxYK6gpincX4Lla4Ui2WdeQxE95
  w7fChXvP3YkE3UYUE7mupZ0eg4ZILr/A0e7JQDsgIu/SRTUE0domCKgPZ8v99k3A
  vka4LpLK51jHJJK7EFgo3ca2nldd97GM0MU41xHFk8qaK1tWJkfrrfcGwDJ4GQPI
  iLlm6i0yHq1Qg1RypAXJy5dTlRXlCLd8ufWhhiwW0W75Va5AEnJuqpQrKwl3KQVe
  wGj67WWRgLfSr+4QG1mNvCZb2CkjZWmxkGPuoP40/y7Yu5OFqxP5tAjj4YixCYTW
  EVA0pmzIzgBg+JIe3PdRy27T0asgQW/F4TY61Yk=
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
  CERT
end
```

## Resource Updates

### chef_client_cron

> The `chef_client_cron` resource has been updated with a new `nice` property that allows you to set the nice level for the `chef-client` process. Nice level changes only apply to the `chef-client` process and not any subprocesses like `ohai` or system utility calls. If you need to ensure that the `chef-client` process does not negatively impact system performance we highly recommend instead using the `cpu_quota` property in the `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource, which applies to all child processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_cron` resource has been updated with a new `nice` property that allows you to set the nice level for the `chef-client` process. Nice level changes only apply to the `chef-client` process and not any subprocesses like `ohai` or system utility calls. If you need to ensure that the `chef-client` process does not negatively impact system performance, we highly recommend instead using the `cpu_quota` property in the `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource which applies to all child processes.
```

### chef_client_systemd_timer

> The `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource has been updated with a new `cpu_quota` property that allows you to control the systemd `CPUQuota` value for the chef-client process. This allows you to ensure chef-client execution doesn't adversely impact performance on your systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource has been updated with a new `cpu_quota` property that allows you to control the systemd `CPUQuota` value for the `chef-client` process. This allows you to ensure `chef-client` execution doesn't adversely impact performance on your systems.
```

### osx_profile

> The `osx_profile` resource will now allow you to remove profiles from macOS 11 (Big Sur) systems. Due to security changes in macOS 11, it is no longer possible to locally install profiles, but this will allow you to cleanup existing profiles left over after an upgrade from an earlier macOS release. Thanks for reporting this issue [@chilcote](https://github.com/chilcote)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `osx_profile` resource will now allow you to remove profiles from macOS 11 (Big Sur) systems. Due to security changes in macOS 11, it is no longer possible to locally install profiles, but this will allow you to cleanup existing profiles left over after an upgrade from an earlier macOS release. Thanks for reporting this issue [@chilcote](https://github.com/chilcote)!
```

### launchd

The `launchd` resource has been updated to better validate inputs to the `nice` property so we can make sure these are acceptable nice values.

### mount

> The `mount` resource on Linux has new improved idempotency in some scenarios by switching to `findmnt` to determine the current state of the system. Thanks for reporting this issue [@pollosp](https://github.com/pollosp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mount` resource on Linux has new improved idempotency in some scenarios by switching to `findmnt` to determine the current state of the system. Thanks for reporting this issue [@pollosp](https://github.com/pollosp)!
```

### rhsm_register

> The `rhsm_register` resource has been updated to reduce the load on the RedHat Satellite server when checking if a system is already registered. Thanks for reporting this issue [@donwlewis](https://github.com/donwlewis). A new `system_name` property has also been added to allow you to register a name other than the system's hostname. Thanks for this improvement [@jasonwbarnett](https://github.com/jasonwbarnett/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rhsm_register` resource has been updated to reduce the load on the RedHat Satellite server when checking if a system is already registered. Thanks for reporting this issue [@donwlewis](https://github.com/donwlewis)! A new `system_name` property has also been added to allow you to register a name other than the system's hostname. Thanks for this improvement [@jasonwbarnett](https://github.com/jasonwbarnett/)!
```

### windows_ad_join

> The `windows_ad_join` resource has been updated with a new `reboot_delay` property, which allows you to control the delay time before restarting systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `windows_ad_join` resource has been updated with a new `reboot_delay` property which allows you to control the delay time before restarting systems.
```

### windows_firewall_profile

> The `windows_firewall_profile` was updated to prevent NilClass errors loading the firewall state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `windows_firewall_profile` resource was updated to prevent NilClass errors from loading the firewall state.
```

## Ohai Improvements

> - Ohai now uses the same underlying code for shelling out to external commands as Chef Infra Client. This may resolve issues determining state on some non-English systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ohai now uses the same underlying code for shelling out to external commands as Chef Infra Client. This may resolve issues from determining the state on some non-English systems.
```

- The `Packages` plugin has been updated to gather package installation information on macOS hosts.

## Platform Packages

> - We are once again building Chef Infra Client packages for RHEL 7 / SLES 12 on the S390x architecture. In addition to these packages we've also added S390x packages for RHEL 8 / SLES 15.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We are once again building Chef Infra Client packages for RHEL 7 / SLES 12 on the S390x architecture. In addition to these packages, we've also added S390x packages for RHEL 8 / SLES 15.
```

- We now produce packages for Apple's upcoming macOS 11 Big Sur release.

## Security

> OpenSSL has been updated to 1.0.2w, which includes a fix for [CVE-2020-1968](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=2020-1968)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSSL has been updated to 1.0.2w which includes a fix for [CVE-2020-1968](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=2020-1968).
```
